---
layout: post
title: Cron jobs for a Dashboard
subtitle: Cron jobs in Linux
image: /img/SDC.jpg
bigimg: /img/MadeinAtl.jpg
tags: [EC2, Cron jobs, Dashboard, Linux, Ubuntu]
---

My clients requested a simple dashboard to display and compare different generated forecasts. <br>
Typically, we use Streamlit to create dashboards because its **fast**, **simple** and **straight forward**.

I created a skeleton dashboard using Streamlit but I wanted to created one to be deployed on an EC2 instance. 
There are lots of steps required and I will try to document those changes as well but let's focus on CronJobs and the EC2 instance.

1. Move data hipline to EC2 
2. Ensure that the data pipeline works!
3. Setup Cron job
4. Ensure Cron job works!

### Move Data pipeline to EC2

This bit is simple. <br>
We can move the python scripts by using WinSCP or we can use Git. <br>
I would use Git once I formalize the script and it all works well but for now WinSCP works great! <br>
Before moving the scripts, update all the file paths and directory strings. <br>
Windows typically uses '\\' but Ubuntu uses '/' in file paths. <br>
Changing these now will save you a lot of headaches. <br>
Now, use WinSCP to drag and drop the Scripts to the linux directory. 

### Ensure that the data pipeline works!

Install packages and run <br>
Comb through your python scripts and find all of the packages utilized. <br>
Once you have a list of python packages, install all missing packages on the EC2 instance. <br>
<br>
Run the code, <br>
Something **will** break, <br>
Debug the issue, <br>
Apply liberally, <br>
Rinse and repeat.. <br>

### Setup Cron Job

Originally, I though I could use some kind of python package to run scheduled jobs but ultimately I felt that it was not really needed. 
In linux, we can use the CronTab, which is a job scheduler.   <br>
Using CronTab, we can schedule jobs at very specific intervals. Hourly, daily, every few, etc.  <br>
<br>
In the CLI, type 'crontab -e' <br>
This is the command to edit the crontab. <br>
<br>
#### Schedule <br>
A line of Crontab contains: 5 asterisks, with a space in-between, the function/language to run, and the script to run. <br>
The 5 asterisks are used to define the scheduling of the script to be run. <br>
\* \* \* \* \* <br>
\- \- \- \- \- <br>
| | | | | <br>
| | | | +- Day of Week (0-6) 0:Sunday <br>
| | | +--- Month (0-12) <br>
| | +----- Day of Month (1-31) <br>
| +------- Hour (0-23) <br>
+--------- Minute (0-59) <br>
<br>
Examples: <br>
at 8:30 AM every day: 30 8 \* \* \* 
<br>
at 2AM every day: 0 2 \* \* \*
<br>
at 2AM every Sunday: 0 2 \* \* 0
<br>
Run every 20 mins: \*/20 \* \* \* \*
<br>
etc..
<br>
<br>
#### Python Directory <br>
Next, let we need to find the location of the python directory. Use the command: 'which python' <br>
This will list the location of the python version referenced when you use the python command. <br>
Typically the python location would be: /usr/bin/python

#### Script Location <br>
Lastly we need to determine the location of the script we'd like to run. <br>
Find the file location and *make sure its spelled correctly!* <br>
lets say its /media/test/script.py <br>


#### Put All Together:

Schedule + Python Directory + Script Location. <br>
Safe and exit the crontab. <br>
<br>
Example: <br>
Run a script very 10 mins <br>
\*/10 \* \* \* \* /usr/bin/python /media/test/script.py
<br>
If you need help formatting use: https://crontab.guru/ <br>
It is a really helpful resource.


### Ensure Cron job works! <br>
We can double check the crontab saving properly by using in the CLI: crontab -l <br>
This lists the existing crontab commands without editing. <br>
You can check if the script executed properly, by checking the outputs after the scheduled dates. <br>

